---
layout: post
title:  macOS 10.15.4 update
date:   2020-03-22 7:00:00 -0600
categories: Hackintosh updates
---

So today marks the release of macOS 10.15.4, a pretty average release for most users but quite a special one for both laptop and clover users. 


# Laptops

With this release, we now have official Ice Lake support! Do note that Apple rarely supports GT1 GPUs for more than a .1 update as more of an accident so be wary. At the moment we know the following iGPUs are supported:

* Iris Plus G4
* Iris Plus G7

Other issues are:

* We still need framebuffer dumps to know the best platform ID
* MacBookAir9,1 isn't yet supported by MacInfoPkg
* Memory protections are in place breaking AptioMemoryFix, OpenCore, and OcQuirks

OpenCore fixed the last one in 0.5.7 thanks to the quirk `ProtectUefiServices` which fixes the use of DevirtulizeMMIO allowing the macOS kernel to fit nicely. `ProtectUefiServices` has been added to [OcQuirks](https://github.com/ReddestDream/OcQuirks/releases) from revision 19. So be patient and don't rush out to buy a machine *just* for hackintoshing

# Clover

Oh what fun, Clover's drunk again and won't boot for some of you! The specific issue seems to be only for Skylake and newer users. The specific of what happened:

* Apple added Ice Lake and Comet Lake support to the kernel
* Problem is it wouldn't fit as-is, so the mask of the processor changed
* This then meant that it turned from 16 bits to 20 bits long
* This then broke Clover's `KernelPM` and `AppleIntelCPUPM` patch

So because of this change, we have 4 paths to go down:

* Disable CFG-Lock in the BIOS 
   * See [Disabling CFG-Lock Guide](https://khronokernel-2.gitbook.io/opencore-vanilla-desktop-guide/extras/msr-lock)
* Use a CPU ID that still works with the old KernelPM patch
   * Broadwell and older are fine

* Update to Clover with commit version [af8a84f](https://github.com/CloverHackyColor/CloverBootloader/commit/af8a84f4784f657e8d8937f0a19dc9695e22f6d9) or later
   * May be a while before it shows up in [release](https://github.com/CloverHackyColor/CloverBootloader/releases), plus recent Cover updates moved to C++ breaking a lot of things
* Buy a hackintosh that starts with the letter M 

For the CPU ID route, you can spoof to a Broadwell-H CPU with the following:

```text
config.plist -> KernelAndKextPatches -> FakeCPUID -> 0x040674
```

We will need to wait for Slice to fix Clover *again*.

And ofc, OpenCore doesn't have any issues with this update. Just another nudge to go to the dark side. The specifics behind this is that Clover doesn't know anything about symbols or structures, and so the patch is very generic whereas OpenCore can be much more precise.

[Source](https://applelife.ru/threads/ustanovka-macos-catalina-10-15-na-intel-pc.2944136/page-572#post-866249)

